Modules and Libraries


What are modules and libraries?

Functions are blocks of code that do specific tasks. 
Functions can be put into modules. 
Modules are separate Python files that can be imported into other Python applications. 
Importing modules makes it possible to reuse code.

A modul is just a single python file (.py) that containes:
	* Functions
	* variables
	* classes
	* code you want to reuse


Libraries are collections of modules. 
By putting modules into libraries, it is possible to import a large amount of programming capability quickly.

NumPy	-> many modules for math & arrays
Pandas	-> Modules for data handeling
Requests-> Modules for HTTP/Web requests


Standard library:
	The Python standard libraryis a collection of script modules thata Python program can access. It simplifies the programming process and reduces the need to rewrite commonly used commands
	
	Python libraries canalso consist of modules that are written in C
	
	Practical example: Saanvi Sarkar didnot invent the wheel. Instead, sheimported a wheel module from a library to help createsomething new—acar.
	
Navigating the Python standard library:
	The Python standard library is a collection of modules that make programming easier by removing the need to rewrite commonly used commands 
	
	The library contains built-in modules to access such functionality as time (time), getting system information (sys), querying the operating system (os), and many more.
	
	Using the standard library where possible makes code easier to maintain and port to other platforms


Reusing code means that you are less likely to encounter bugs.
Importing modules can refer to the module’s documentation.
Commonly used modules can be learned once and reused in multiple projects.
Other software developers might understand your code better if you work with commonly used modules


Modules can be:
	1.Created by you. You might need Python to complete a specific set of tasks or functions that are grouped together.
	If so, it can be easier to bind them together into a module. 
	2.External sources (created by others)..
	3.Prepackaged with Python and part of the standard library.
	•Examples: math, time, and random
	
Importing modules Standard library modules are imported by using the import command. 
You can also import specific functions or constants from a module by using the from command


To make your own module :
	•Create a file name with a .py extension ( for instance mymodule.py )
	•Add your code to define some functions
	•You can now import mymodule in other python files and use the code defined in the module


import mymodule

print(mymodule.greet("Tim"))
print(mymodule.add(8,8))
print(mymodule.pi)

--------
import math

absolute = -5.999
floor_test = 198.42

result1 = math.fabs(absolute)
result2 = math.floor(floor_test)

print(result1, " is the absolute value of ", absolute)
print(result2, " is the flow of ", floor_test) 

-----

Use the built-in open() function.
Two arguments, both strings
—the path to the file, and the file mode (read or write)
—return a file handler object that represents that file.
File handlers can read data from the file or write data to the file. 
They can also pass data to other functions that can do so on your behalf (like json.load and json.dump)

File handlers must be closed after use, by calling the attached .close() function.
----

Exception handling
	•Exception handling is another form of flow control.
	•When an error occurs, instead of failing and quitting the program, you can use a try/except block.
	•You must specify the exception (or exceptions) that you expect might occur.
------
try:
    result = 10/0
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print("You cannot divide by zero")
------    
    
try:
    
    age = int(input("Enter age: "))
    result = 10/age
    print("Age is:", age )
    
except ValueError:
    print("Invalid number entered")

except ZeroDivisionError:
    print("Age cannot be zero")
    
------

Examples: Exception handling

Trying to read a file
	when that file might not exist
Trying to understand a file
	when that file was saved incorrectly or has bad data
Trying to write to a file on your computer
	when your computer mightbe out of space
Trying to handle input from the user
	when that input might not be valid
Trying to make an HTTP request
	when you mightnot have internet access
	
---------

•JSON stands for Java Script Object Notation.
•JSON is a standard file format that transmits data objects. It is language independent. 
It was originally derived from JavaScript, but now most modern languages include the ability to generate and parse JSON (including Python).
•JSON is used to serializeobjects, which means that it turns code into a string that can be transmitted over a channel

•Four useful functions in the JSON module are:
	–dump	-> file	  -> pyhton object -> json write to file
	–dumps  -> string -> pyhton object -> json string
	–load	-> file	  -> JSON file     -> pytho object
	–loads	-> string -> JSON string    -> pthon object	
	
•dump and dumps: Turn various kinds of structured data into a string, which can be written to a file.
•load and loads: Turn a string back into structured data.
•dump and load work directly with files. 
•dumps and loads work with strings.
	–The sat the end of the name is for string.


As mentioned earlier, JSON is used to make large amounts of data into strings and then put them back into their correct data types.

JSON takes a float and turns it into a string so that the information can be sent easily. 
Then, it turns the string back into a float when the information is received.
This technique is especially useful when you have more than one data type in a dataset. 
You can translate your Boolean, Integer, Float, and String to a single string.
You can then store the information in a file or a webpage.
When the data is retrieved and turned back, they are still the Boolean, Integer, Float, and String data types.


import json
filename = 'userName.json'
name = ""

# Check for a history file
try:
    with open(filename, 'r') as r:
      name = json.load(r)

except FileNotFoundError:
    print("First-time login")

if name != "":
    print("Welcome Back," + name + "!")
else:
    name = input("Hello! Whats your name?")
    print("Welcome, " + name + "!")
try:    
    with open(filename, 'w') as f:
        f.write("saving user data")
except IOError:
    print("There was a problem writing to the history file.")
        
 -----       
        
        
What is pip?
pip is the package manager for Python, and it is similar to apt in Linux.
•It is used to install third-party packages. A package holds one or more Python modules that you can use in your code.
•It is installed along with Python.It is not called from within Python—pip is called from the command line, like Python itself is

What is the relationship between a function, a module, and a library?
	Functions are blocks of code that can be wrapped in a module with other functions. Multiple modules can then be wrapped into a single library.
	
What is the purpose of file handlers? 
	File handlers enable Python to read and write to files.
	
Can Python be used to run systems commands?
	Yes, by calling functions like system()from the os library. 
	
What are exceptions used for in Python?
	When an error occurs in a Python application, an exception is raised. The exception can be caught and handled to enable the application to elegantly handle the occurrence of errors.
	
True or False: When used, the JSON library automatically creates the correct data type for data.
	True
	
What is pip?
	pip is the standard package manager for Python. You can use it to install and manage additional packages that are not part of the Python standard library.
	
Why use pip?
	pip makes it easier to manage packages in Python than it would be to install, update, and remove them manually.

